---
layout: post
title: vsftpd users on Centos 5
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

If you're like me and do your server administration from the terminal (GUIs are for kids), then you must have come across the FTP issue. You have clients which design and develop websites for other people. These people require FTP access to their websites to upload the odd PDFs or DOCs. Some are just static websites so they don't have a fancy CMSes with upload functionalities.

For example, I store all my stuff on the server in */home/gerhard*:

{% highlight bash %}
[gerhard@konnichiwa ~]$ tree -d -L 1
.
|-- archive.gerhardlazu.com
|-- carmina.lazu.co.uk
|-- gerhardlazu.com
|-- lazu.co.uk
`-- lazu.ro -> lazu.co.uk
{% endhighlight %}

So what happens if I want to allow Carmina FTP access to *carmina.lazu.co.uk* without her seeing the other folders?

{% highlight bash %}
[gerhard@konnichiwa ~]$ sudo adduser -d /home/gerhard/carmina.lazu.co.uk carmina -s /sbin/nologin
Password:
[gerhard@konnichiwa ~]$ sudo passwd carmina
Changing password for user carmina.
New UNIX password: 
Retype new UNIX password: 
passwd: all authentication tokens updated successfully.
{% endhighlight %}

Just to be sure, let's try and access the server via SSH with this account. After all, we just created a new system user:

{% highlight bash %}
snowy ➜  ~  ssh carmina@konnichiwa
carmina@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx password:
This account is currently not available.
Connection to xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx closed.
{% endhighlight %}

And that's it. No virtual users, no messing about with pam.d. It takes a few seconds and it's as secure as your system setup.

This article assumes you already have "vsftpd":http://vsftpd.beasts.org/ installed on the system.